<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dtd/concept.dtd" []>
<concept audience="developer" id="linux-id" product="1.0">
  <title>Linux</title>
  <abstract><shortdesc>Linux is a Unix-like and POSIX-compliant computer operating system assembled
      under the model of free and open source software development and distribution. The main form
      of distribution are Linux distributions.</shortdesc>The defining component of Linux is the
    Linux kernel, an operating system kernel first released on 5 October 1991, by Linus Torvalds.
    Because it considers Linux to be a variant of the GNU operating system, initiated in 1983 by
    Richard Stallman, the Free Software Foundation prefers the name GNU/Linux when referring to the
    operating system as a whole (see GNU/Linux naming controversy).</abstract>
  <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>The birth of Linux</title>
      <p>In 1991 while attending the University of Helsinki, Torvalds became curious about operating
        systems and frustrated by the licensing of MINIX, which limited it to educational use only.
        He began to work on his own operating system which eventually became the Linux kernel.</p>
      <p>Torvalds began the development of the Linux kernel on MINIX, and applications written for
        MINIX were also used on Linux. Later Linux matured and further Linux development took place
        on Linux systems. GNU applications also replaced all MINIX components, because it was
        advantageous to use the freely available code from the GNU Project with the fledgling
        operating system. (Code licensed under the GNU GPL can be reused in other projects as long
        as they also are released under the same or a compatible license.) Torvalds initiated a
        switch from his original license, which prohibited commercial redistribution, to the GNU
        GPL. Developers worked to integrate GNU components with Linux to make a fully functional and
        free operating system.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Current development</title>
      <p>Torvalds continues to direct the development of the kernel. Stallman heads the Free
        Software Foundation, which in turn supports the GNU components. Finally, individuals and
        corporations develop third-party non-GNU components. These third-party components comprise a
        vast body of work and may include both kernel modules and user applications and libraries.
        Linux vendors and communities combine and distribute the kernel, GNU components, and non-GNU
        components, with additional package management software in the form of Linux
        distributions.</p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
