<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dtd/concept.dtd" []>
<concept audience="developer" id="linux-naming-controversy-id" product="1.0">
  <title>The Linux Naming Controversy</title>
  <abstract><shortdesc>The GNU/Linux naming controversy is a dispute among members of the free and
      open source software community over how to refer to the computer operating system commonly
      called Linux. </shortdesc>GNU/Linux is a term promoted by the Free Software Foundation (FSF),
    its founder Richard Stallman, and its supporters, for operating systems that include GNU
    software and the Linux kernel. The FSF argues for the term GNU/Linux because GNU was a
    longstanding project to develop a free operating system, of which they say the kernel was the
    last missing piece. Proponents of the Linux term dispute GNU/Linux for a number of reasons, such
    as the fact that the term Linux is far more commonly used by the public and media</abstract>
  <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>History</title>
      <p>Plans for GNU, a complete computer operating system composed entirely of free software,
        were made in 1983 by Richard Stallman, founder of the Free Software Foundation. In September
        of that year, Stallman published his manifesto in Dr. Dobb's Journal detailing his new
        project publicly, and outlining his vision of free software. Software development work began
        in January 1984. GNU was to be a complete Unix-like operating system composed entirely of
        free software. By 1991, the GNU mid-level portions of the operating system were almost
        complete, and the upper level could be supplied by the X Window System, but the lower level
        (kernel, device drivers, system-level utilities and daemons) was still mostly lacking. The
        GNU kernel, <xref scope="external" format="html" href="https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Hurd">GNU
          Hurd</xref>, was still in its infancy. The Hurd followed an ambitious design which proved
        unexpectedly difficult to implement and has only been marginally usable. The Hurd is a
        microkernel architecture similar to that used in <xref
          href="mac_os_x.dita#mac-os-x-id/kernel-id">Mac OS X</xref>.</p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
