<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dtd/concept.dtd" []>
<concept audience="developer" id="mac-os-x-id" product="1.0">
  <title>Apple's OS X</title>
  <abstract><shortdesc>OS X /ˌoʊ ɛs ˈtɛn/, previously Mac OS X, is a series of Unix-based graphical
      interface operating systems developed, marketed, and sold by Apple Inc. It is designed to run
      exclusively on Mac computers, having been pre-loaded on all Macs since 2002. </shortdesc>It
    was the successor to Mac OS 9, released in 1999, the final release of the "classic" Mac OS,
    which had been Apple's primary operating system since 1984. The first version released was Mac
    OS X Server 1.0 in 1999, and a desktop version, Mac OS X v10.0 "Cheetah" followed on March 24,
    2001. Previous releases of OS X were named after big cats; for example, OS X v10.8 was referred
    to as "Mountain Lion". However, with the announcement of OS X Mavericks this was dropped in
    favor of Californian landmarks.</abstract>
  <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>Naming</title>
      <p>OS X, whose X is the Roman numeral for 10 and is a prominent part of its brand identity, is
        built on technologies developed at NeXT between the second half of the 1980s and Apple's
        purchase of the company in late 1996. The 'X' is also used to emphasize the relatedness
        between OS X and UNIX. Versions 10.5 "Leopard" running on Intel processors, 10.6 "Snow
        Leopard", 10.7 "Lion", 10.8 "Mountain Lion", and 10.9 "Mavericks" have obtained UNIX 03
        certification. iOS, which runs on the iPhone, iPod Touch, iPad, and the 2nd and 3rd
        generation Apple TV, shares the Darwin core and many frameworks with OS X. An unnamed
        variant of v10.4 powered the first generation Apple TV.</p>
    </section>

    <section id="kernel-id">
      <title>Mac OS X kernel</title>
      <p>OS X is based upon the Mach kernel. Certain parts from FreeBSD's and NetBSD's
        implementation of Unix were incorporated in NeXTSTEP, the core of Mac OS X. NeXTSTEP was the
        graphical, object-oriented, and UNIX-based operating system developed by Steve Jobs' company
        NeXT after he left Apple in 1985. While Jobs was away from Apple, Apple tried to create a
        "next-generation" OS through the Taligent, Copland and Gershwin projects, with little
        success.[16] Eventually, NeXT's OS, then called OPENSTEP, was selected to be the basis for
        Apple's next OS, and Apple purchased NeXT outright. Steve Jobs returned to Apple as interim
        CEO, and later became CEO, shepherding the transformation of the programmer-friendly
        OPENSTEP into a system that would be adopted by Apple's primary market of home users and
        creative professionals. The project was first known as Rhapsody and was later renamed to Mac
        OS X.</p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
