<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE concept PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Concept//EN" "http://docs.oasis-open.org/dita/dtd/concept.dtd" []>
<concept audience="developer" id="windows-id" product="1.0">
  <title>The Microsoft Windows Operating System</title>
  <abstract><shortdesc>Microsoft Windows is a series of graphical interface operating systems
      developed, marketed, and sold by Microsoft.</shortdesc>Microsoft introduced an operating
    environment named Windows on November 20, 1985 as a graphical operating system shell for MS-DOS
    in response to the growing interest in graphical user interfaces (GUI). Microsoft Windows came
    to dominate the world's personal computer market with over 90% market share, overtaking Mac OS,
    which had been introduced in 1984.</abstract>
  <conbody>
    <section>
      <title>History</title>
      <p>The history of Windows dates back to September 1981, when Chase Bishop, a computer
        scientist, designed the first model of an electronic device and project "Interface Manager"
        was started. It was announced in November 1983 (after the Apple Lisa, but before the
        Macintosh) under the name "Windows", but Windows 1.0 was not released until November 1985.
        Windows 1.0 achieved little popularity and was to compete with Apple's own operating system.
        Windows 1.0 is not a complete operating system; rather, it extends MS-DOS. The shell of
        Windows 1.0 is a program known as the MS-DOS Executive. Components included Calculator,
        Calendar, Cardfile, Clipboard viewer, Clock, Control Panel, Notepad, Paint, Reversi,
        Terminal and Write. Windows 1.0 does not allow overlapping windows. Instead all windows are
        tiled. Only modal dialog boxes may appear over other windows.</p>
    </section>
  </conbody>
</concept>
